V: Cryptography in every service and every workload satisfies all our customer's security requirements.

M: Ensure that  services and tools use the best cryptographic engineering practices, designs and libraries. Increase  cryptographic services value and we influence cryptography in the industry.

T: 
- **Best achievable cryptographic advice and software.** Securing our customer's data requires deep understanding of cryptographic principles and the latest research. We understand how to use cryptography to protect customer and corporate information. We continuously measure the efficiency and performance of our technologies to deliver code optimized for performance.  
- **Anticipate the future and openly influence it.** We secure our customer's data through the lens of future adversaries. We provide solutions that protect against plausible advances in cryptanalysis and computing. We openly participate in fora addressing new or existing crypto issues affecting our customers. In addition to educating and influencing others, our work receives the necessary review that leads to high assurance. To build customer trust that our libraries are secure, we provide transparency on how our cryptographic operations are implemented and used. 
- **Measurable and evidence-based.** We are demonstratively correct. The best cryptographic engineering includes concrete security bounds based on a minimal set of universally accepted assumptions. We avoid relying on best guesses and intuition and are skeptical of systems that have a lack of evidence. We continuously invest in testing (unit, integration, fuzz, and formal verification), provide detailed documentation, and develop meaningful features.
- **Security First.** To run the most secure services, we continuously raise the bar on our already high security standards. We will not take shortcuts to deliver speed over correctness. We believe that complexity creates risk to our customers and ourselves. Therefore, we will strive to reduce the risk surface area in any software that we build, by reducing complexity of our APIs.
- **Easy to use, hard to misuse.**  We make it easy for customers to protect their data through encryption. Our libraries, APIs, and other deliverables are easy for customers to integrate and deploy and come with secure defaults. We will optimize for a streamlined customer experience at the expense of having more options. We give clear, actionable guidance to customers and automate when possible. We give clear migration paths for customers to move to the best possible cryptographic tool or library for their purpose

